So now's actually a good time in
the course to actually discuss a very
important feature of Python.
And that's actually iterators and
iterable objects.
Now an iterator is an object that
represents a stream of a data.
So it actually returns the stream,
or the actual data in the stream,
one element at a time.
Now, any object that supports iteration is
called iterable, and we've actually seen
two iterable objects already so far in
the course, and that's strings and lists.
So, as we've seen I'm
gonna type in some code.
We can actually use a for loop to iterate
over each of the characters in a string.
So let's actually type that out.
We're gonna use string 1234567890, and
you see this a few times now in
the course, something similar.
For char in the string.
Print char.
And if we actually run that, we actually
get the results we can see on the screen.
But what's actually happening behind the
scenes is that there's an iterator that's
created from the string.
And the for loop actually uses
that iterator to return each item
of the string, or
each element in this case.
1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 0.
And when there are no more items
the iterator returns an error and the for
loop actually terminates.
So, note in this case that the for
loop handles the error, and that's why you
haven't actually seen an error when
you're actually running the code.
What we'll do is we'll actually
create an iterator from the string
rather than letting the for
loop create one implicitly,
and that's gonna be easier to see
what's going on when we do that.
So use the iter function to do that, so
what I'm gonna do is just
comment out the for loop.
And what we're going to do is put my and
the school interrator, equals hitter,
and that's the function.
And then we pass the name, in this case,
the string variable that we want, and
if we can actually do a print, my
interrator, so if we actually do that and
we actually run that.
We actually get a string iterator
object showing on the screen.
Now this is actually just showing
the object representation,
supposedly a memory
allocation of where that is,
but to actually see it in use,
we can do something like this.
Print next my iterator and then print next
my iterator the rest you do that and
run it.
We get the values one and
two as you can see on the screen there so
it's actually going through one element
at a time and that's what the next did,
it actually returned the first element.
Next again and then return the second
element, and so on and so forth.
So basically each time that we use next,
in my iterator,
we're passing the iterator
that we created in line 5.
That's what it's doing,
it's actually going through the list.
And obviously again getting back to
the for loop, that was doing that for
us essentially behind the scenes.
So what we're doing its actually created
the code that more less is happening
behind the scenes.
So if we wanted to go right through to the
end we could actually create some more.
So we've got ten entries, so
if we have another 8, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, so that should actually be ten now,
if we actually run that we actually get
all the elements, 1 through to 0
essentially, so you can see there.
So that's the exact number of
elements that are in the string.
But if we actually now,
add actually one more.
So in other words, we know now that
we're already at the end of the string,
let's actually see what happens
when we try to go beyond that.
So we actually run that.
And you can see, we actually get an error.
And if we just expand it out so
we can see it.
You can it manage to go through and count
through to zero successfully and than it
comes off and basically say, a trace
back call last and stop it's duration.
And that's basically line 18.
Which has, as expected, crashed because
there weren't any more elements.
So, once we've covered error
handling in the future,
if you have nothing better to do, then you
could actually write all your four loops
by explicitly requesting an iterator
using the iter function.
And calling next until you get an error,
and this is,
again, exactly what the for loop does for
us, it actually does it automatically.
It keeps using next until it
sees the stop iteration i error
which is this area here on the screen.
When it sees that it actually
terminates for us automatically.
So the for loop implicitly creates
an iterator from the iterable object
that we want to iterate over.
Now of course we don't
have to do all that.
But it's useful to actually understand how
iterators work, and it'll also become even
more useful when we come to creating our
own iterable classes later in the course.
Just to help consort like that,
let's just close down the run we're doing.
And comment out this code.
Now paste that code in again.
I just want you to consider
these two loops here.
Now let me just get the right
indent levels going.
Again, very important to get
your indent levels correct.
So consider these two.
So the first one's just a standard for
loop.
The second one, for_char in iter String.
So I consider both of these scenarios,
they actually both do
exactly the same thing.
But this second example here, is what's
actually happening in the first case.
The for up here,
it's implicitly creating an iterator
from the iteratable string object.
So basically if you're just putting for
char in string, then essentially what's
happening behind the scenes is Python is
actually adding this iter to that string.
So it was actually creating
that iterator for us.
So, it can be very useful
again to know that and
you'll be finding out more about
iterators as we move through the course.
So, let's just come up
now with a mini challenge
to help you understand
iterators a bit more.
I'm gonna top that out now.
So here is the mini challenge
we've got for iterators.
So create a list of items and
you can use either strings or
numbers in the list, it doesn't
really matter, and then from that
create an iterater u'sing the iter
function that we actually went through.
Now, next use a for loop to loop n times.
Now, n is the number of
items in your list and
each time around the loop use next on
your list to print the next item.
And just as a hint there,
use the len function,
we've talked about previously, rather than
counting the number of items in the list.
So, go away and see if you can figure
that out, and type up some code and
get that working, and
when you're ready to come back and
compare your code to mine,
I'll be here waiting.
So pause the video now, and
I'll see you when you get back.
So how did you get on?
Did you come up with a good solution for
that?
So let's go through with
my implementation, and
bearing in mind this is
just a implementation.
There's lot's of different
ways to do these things.
Let's come up and start by typing
the lists or creating the lists.
Which will be my_list =, and
I'm gonna use just the days of the week.
So Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday Thursday,
Friday, Saturday,
Sunday, like so.
Next I'm gonna create the iterator.
That's my iterator equals iter my_list
the iter function creates that iterator,
as we talked about.
And then we're gonna go
through using the four loop.
So I'm gonna do four i in range zero,
I'm using lan to get the number
of elements from the list.
Mine is called list.
Remembering that the lead in this case
on a list actually returns the number of
elements that are actually
existing in the list itself.
So, that's the for loop.
And then we're gonna use next underscore
item equals equals next my iterator so
we're iterating through one element at
a time, so that's giving us the next
element, or the next item,
in this case a string from the list.
And we're going to print
that out print next item.
So that's the solution, so
if we actually run that to make sure that
it's working we can see we get Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
And we can see that it's
actually working fine.
So the idea of this challenge was
to help you understand iteratives.
Now of course you wouldn't want
to access the items in the list
in that way normally.
You'd probably want to do something a lot
simpler like you've learned earlier
that in the course, like four i in
my_list called a list Print(i), and
obviously that would
return the same results.
Oops, I forgot a call in there.
And then again,
that obviously returns the same result.
But the point again here was to teach you
what iterators are and how to use them.
And as mentioned, later in the course
we'll actually be creating our own classes
that use iterable objects.
And you'll be understanding a little
bit more about iterators then.
So I hope you enjoyed that.
And then, next video, we're gonna actually
start looking in more detail at ranges,
which I've used a few times
already in the course.
So, I'll see you in that next video.